#  ðŸ—ï¸  DataScience .....IN PROGRESS ðŸš§ 



> Why is an apple, an apple and not a monkey? Because your brain (**intelligence**) process the information (**data**) correctly that is gathered by your eyes (**sensor**) by continuously learning and reasoning those things (**science?**). Humans have been doing this since forever... For us this is trivial. However, human brain has certain cognitive limitations in terms of information fetching and `processing, memory, recognition, prediction` and so on....so powerful computers can help. With the improvements and advancements in technology, hardware and computing resources, we can now gather ample data from almost everything for e.g. your smart phone leaves traces of your movements and locations, your online search behaviour is stored, how you use television can be captured, how you purchase stuff at a superstore is recorded, even how you walk in the city is monitored by CCTV and so on. Our data is being captured everywhere and all the time without us noticing it. Does this data worth anything or to anyone? Yes, it does! Ask advertisers, who want to provide dedicated ads to maximize their business, ask people who want applications for health and fitness, e.g. health tracker, fall detector etc, .
> - What we just saw above is the 'data' side of the things. Now Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Data Mining and allied fields help in providing systematic and scientific methods to provide useful insights, predictions, recognitions and analytical solutions from this gigantic data. Hence you can combine two ideas together and say '**data science**' is indeed important.