


#   Introduction
Java Singleton Pattern is one of the Gangs of Four Design patterns and comes in the Creational Design Pattern category. From the definition, it seems to be a very simple design pattern but when it comes to implementation, it comes with a lot of implementation concerns. The implementation of Java Singleton pattern has always been a controversial topic among developers. Here we will learn about Singleton design pattern principles, different ways to implement the Singleton design pattern and some of the best practices for its usage.

<!-- ``` -->

> GoF Definition
>
> Ensure a class only has one instance, and provide a global point of access to it.

<!-- ``` -->

##  Java Singleton
Singleton pattern restricts the instantiation of a class and ensures that only one instance of the class exists in the java virtual machine.

-   The singleton class must provide a global access point to get the instance of the class.
-   Singleton pattern is used for logging, drivers objects, caching and thread pool.
-   Singleton design pattern is also used in other design patterns like Abstract Factory, Builder, Prototype, Facade etc.
-   Singleton design pattern is used in core java classes also, for example `java.lang.Runtime` , `java.awt.Desktop`

##  Java Singleton Pattern
To implement a Singleton pattern, we have different approaches but all of them have the following common concepts.

-   Private constructor to restrict instantiation of the class from other classes.
-   Private static variable of the same class that is the only instance of the class.
-   Public static method that returns the instance of the class, this is the global access point for outer world to get the instance of the singleton class.




#   Reference 
-   https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/java-design-patterns/9781484240786/html/395506_2_En_1_Chapter.xhtml

